# vlsi_project

This is a template for the digital VLSI design project. It contains a complete
design flow for an N-bit digital divider. The project includes 2 folders:
- `divder`: the main folder of the design project
- `document`: the useful PDF documents to understand the project

## Prerequisite: Linux development environment
It is very important for users to get familiar with the Linux development
environment, because people always work on Linux instead of Windows in the
digital circuit domain. At least, you should be able to know some basic
operations in Linux, such as:
- `ls`: list all the files in the current folder
- `cd`: change the working directory to a new location
- `cp`: copy the specified file to a new location
- `mv`: move the specified file to a new location
- `mkdir`: create a new directory in the specified location
- `rm`: remove a specified file or a specified directory
- `chmod`: change the access permission to the specified files
- `less` or `more`: view the content of a specified file
- `find`: find the specified files or directories under a specified location
- `grep`: find the specified pattern in the contents of files
- `tar`: compress or un-compress of files into or from an archive

There is a more detailed explanation called 'linux_command.pdf' under
the `document` directory. You can find more detailed information there if you
are not familiar with the Linux environment.

## Design project: N-bit divider
The main part of the design project (N-bit divider) is included in the `divider`
folder. The `divider` folder contains different directories serving for
different design stages of digital design flow:
- `rtl`: the folder containing all Verilog/VHDL/SystemVerilog source codes
- `behav_sim`: conduct the behavior simulation of the digital design
- `syn`: run the synthesis flow in this directory
- `syn_sim`: conduct the gate-level simulation of the post-synthesis results
- `layout`: run the place and route (P&R) in this directory
- `layout_sim`: conduct the gate-level simulation of the post-layout results

## Step 1: RTL design
In `rtl` directory, we have provided a skeleton of the RTL design of an N-bit
divider. Since the divider is a small module for a digital design project, there
is only one file (`divider.v`) under this directory. In a real design, there may
exist tens to hundreds of Verilog files in it.

The provided `divider.v` is not complete. You have to read the structure of the
source code and complete the `TODO` section in the `divider.v`. A supplementary
document `divider.pdf` can be found under the `document` folder, which gives a
great explanation of how a divider works in hardware. Basically, the division is
conducted in a trail-and-error scheme, where the divisor is subtracted from the
most significant bit (MSB) to the least significant bit (LSB) of the dividend
iteratively. The quotient will be shifted in 1 or 0 depends on whether the
subtraction result is positive or negative. The divisor operation is different
from the simple add or multiplication operation, where it takes multiple clock
cycles to give the final results of the division. For instance, it requires 33
clock cycles for a 32-bit divider to generate the final quotient and remainder.
Additional `done` signal will be asserted (i.e. raised to logic 1) to notify the
outside world when the division is complete.

## Step 2: Behavior simulation
After the RTL design is finished, we should run the behavior simulation to not
only check there is no syntax error with our design, but also the functionality
and timing of the design is correct. We will run the behavior simulation in the
`behav_sim` directory. We provide the testbench code for our design, i.e.
`divider_tb.v`. It is highly recommanded to check the content of the testbench
to see how the input stimulus are applied to the inputs of the divider.
Moreover, there exists two simple shell scripts under `behav_sim` directory:
- `run`: compile the source code and testbench of the divider using Synopsys VCS
- `clean`: clean the intermediated files generated by Synopsys VCS
It is suggested to read the content these 2 scripts and to understand how to
include the Verilog source codes to the VCS command.

In order to launch the VCS compilation and simulation, you only have to type the
following 2 commands in your terminal:

  >> ./run

  >> ./simv -gui

The DVE GUI will be launched, and you are able to run the simulation and view
the waveform. The usage of DVE GUI is very simple, you can simply drag the
wires you want to inspect and add them into the waveform window. It is very
similar to the Windows software. In addition, the testbench will print the
division results to your terminal (a.k.a console). If the RTL design is correct
in Step 1, you should be able to see the following division results in the
terminal:

```sh
10 / 7: quotient = 1, remainder = 3
100 / 100: quotient = 1, remainder = 0
100 / 7: quotient = 14, remainder = 2
100 / 0: quotient = 0, remainder = 0
70 / 150: quotient = 0, remainder = 70
```

## Step 3: Synthesize the design using Synopsys Design Compiler
